---
layout: post
title: Why we need a new Social Network
date: 2013-01-04 14:26:43
---

The problem with social networks is that they all focus on the money.
[Twitter](http://twitter.com) with it’s sponsored tweets and
[Facebook](http://facebook.com) with it’s sponsored posts, self-service
ads, interactive ads, game coins and a million other things. When your
average person joins one of the two behemoths, they think they are a
user *of* a product. What they don’t realize is they *are* the product.

Eventually a certain group of people got fed up with this, and
[they](https://app.net/about/) created an ad-free social network called
[App.net or ADN](http://app.net). It seemed great. It was designed
totally for the user, unlike the others whose designs are affected
adversely by big corporations who dump in the advertising money,
[ADN](http://app.net) could do whatever it thought was best for the end
user. Another key feature is the fact that the user owns their own data,
they can delete it, store it and move it wherever they want. ADN looks
like an awesome idea, and they raised [about
600k](http://mashable.com/2012/08/13/app-net-kickstarter-funding/)
through their own crowdfunding platform, but the problem lies in the
fact that there is no free option.

People expect social networks to be free. It’s a simple fact. Some
people will be willing to pay if the product is good enough, and, with
ADN, the product is definitely good enough, but unless *everyone* is
willing to pay, it defeats the purpose. I heard about ADN while it was
crowdfunding, and I, being a nerd, immediately got excited and was about
to pull out my credit card when I stopped to think for a minute. I asked
myself, “Will *all* of my friends start using this?” The simple answer
is no.

To explain, I use Facebook because everyone is on it. Literally
everyone. My little cousin’s hamster has a Facebook account. So does his
pet rock. It happens to be creatively named *Rocky*. I don’t think he,
his hamster or Rocky will pay to use a different service. Even if only a
few won’t join, then it’s not for me. I already have [one too
many](http://www.path.com) social networks that not enough of my friends
use. ADN, for this simple reason, isn’t for me.

Although ADN isn’t for me, I did a quick [DuckDuckGo](http://ddg.gg)
search a few moths ago and [found
out](http://web.appstorm.net/general/opinion/why-tent-io-seems-more-promising-than-app-net/)
about the [Tent Protocol](http://tent.io), as well as
[Diaspora\*](https://github.com/diaspora/diaspora.I) ended up choosing
to check out Tent first, I’ll get to Diaspora\*; later. In short, my
experience with tent has been stellar so far. The community, to be
really honest, is a bunch of very friendly developers, designers and,
like me, tech junkies. If that doesn’t appeal to you, wait a while.
Twitter’s early adopters were nerds too. If you’re interested in tent,
check out [tent.is](http://tent.is), an awesome web app that sets you up
with your own *entity* in a few seconds or take an in depth look around
[tent](http://tent.io) if you want to learn more. The best part is,
although right now there is only really microblogging and an essays, it
is not limited to those sorts of things at all. If you’re a developer,
you can add a photo-sharing component, a blogging component and whatever
else you can dream of.

Another couple key things I forgot to mention (thanks
[Jeena](http://jeenaparadies.net)) are that ADN is owned by a company,
which can do whatever it wants whenever it wants, and Tent is just a
protocol, so that means it’s really just documentation of how things
should work.

A response post from [tony](http://tonys.me) can be found
[here](http://tonys.me/post/37357275596/social-can-never-be-free-my-voice-is-not-alone-in).