---
layout: post
title: Maps - Apple vs Google
date: 2013-02-15 14:07:00
---


While
[everyone](http://www.cnn.com/2012/09/20/tech/mobile/apple-maps-complaints/index.html)
was complaining about [Apple Maps](http://www.apple.com/ios/maps/) I
used them rigorously, and never ran into a single problem. The voice
guided directions have been stellar, rerouting me after I missed a turn
instantaneously, as well as perfectly integrating with
[Siri](http://www.apple.com/ios/siri/).

![Apple Maps vs Google Maps iPhone 5 UI Comparison](http://f.cl.ly/items/0S0X0f2e1x2D293s0J1O/iPhone-Maps.png "Apple Maps vs Google Maps iPhone 5 UI Comparison")

Now, before everyone starts telling me how wrong I am and saying that I
live in the only place that there is no errors, I’ll clarify a few
things. First, I’ve been testing both applications out in Canada, and
no, I haven’t just been using it to get from one igloo to another, I’ve
actually been using it on roads. I’ve done a few longer trips with Apple
Maps probably averaging 500 km each, and haven’t had any problems. It’s
also amazing to be able to lock your phone and have the directions as
well as a map replace the clock and background image.

Now, onto Google Maps. Google Maps is great. It has an awesome UI, and
its intuitive. It’s also got Public Transit options, which are vital of
some. I can’t even think of anything they could’ve done better, but,
there are some things that Google just can’t do that Apple can. They
can’t connect to Siri. To some, this isn’t a big deal, but when I ask
Siri to find me the nearest coffee shop, she uses Apple Maps. Now for
people who don’t have Siri that isn’t a big deal, but I do all the time,
and this in itself is a deal breaker for me because I don’t want to use
two separate apps. Another deal breaker is that Apple won’t let Google
use the lock screen to display it’s maps. That’s not at all Google’s
fault, but it’s still a deal breaker. Google did it’s best with
notifications, but it’s not the same.

To sum things up for those of you who are too lazy to read the whole
thing, Google Maps is probably better than Apple Maps, but Apple Maps is
deeply integrated with iOS, while Google is just another App, albeit a
well designed functional one.
