---
layout: post
title: Prismatic
date: 2013-01-26 08:01:04
---

[Prismatic](http://getprismatic.com), while not as well know as [Flipboard](http://flipboard.com) or [Pulse](https://www.pulse.me), is
arguably the best news aggregator there is. Now, to be fair, Flipboard
is totally different, as it’s more of a social aggregator, not a news
aggregator, but they’re similar. Other than the fact that Flipboard is
buried in a folder somewhere, and Prismatic sits right above my dock, as
well as in [Launch Center Pro](http://appcubby.com/launch-center/).

Now, I’m not necessarily saying that Prismatic is better that Flipboard
or Pulse for everyone, but, well really, Prismatic is stellar. If I want
social, I’ll go on [Facebook](http://facebook.com) and
[Twitter](http://twitter.com). Ask yourself this. Has Flipboard stopped
you using Facebook and Twitter or whatever you use? No. Has Prismatic
removed *all* other news consumption from my life? Yes. If you don’t
believe me, these are the apps/websites I no longer use because of
Prismatic: [Pulp](http://www.acrylicapps.com/pulp/), [Google
News](http://news.google.com/), [The New York Times
app](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?mt=8&ign-mpt=uo%3D4),
[Fluent News](http://www.fluentnews.com),
[Zite](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/zite-personalized-magazine/id419752338?mt=8)
and [Mixtab](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/mixtab/id438373717?mt=12)
as well as a few others I’ve already forgotten about.

Prismatic is that intuitive. Scroll with a swipe. Open an article with a
tap. Swipe left to go back. Tap and hold to Recommend, Save or Share.
Swipe right to access the menu with your saved articles, search,
recommendations etc. (Screenshot Below) I love using it every day. All
day long. I probably pull down to refresh at least 3 or 4 times a day.
Sometimes when I’m bored, I just swipe and tap around, because it’s
*fun* to use. It is beautiful.

Now, a great UI is one thing, but how does it preform? Well, it’s
lightning fast, and to be honest I know nothing about the algorithm it
uses to find similar thing such as things you may like, but it picks
awesome stuff for me. I’ve found a slew of subjects I’m now interested
in because they were similar to things I liked, and it selects awesome
articles on whatever you’re interested in. You have to pick the things
you’re interested in when you first set it up, and every once in a while
I’ll add something else that I find intriguing, but other than that it’s
always ready to go. I can’t recommend it enough.

![](http://img.simvla.net/41/1355795573.png)

![](http://img.simvla.net/42/1355795624.png)

DISCLAIMER: I am not affiliated with, related to, endorsed by or
compensated by Prismatic or Woven Inc.x