---
layout: post
title: iPhone 5
date: 2013-03-06 20:03:35
---

Plenty of people have already reviewed the [iPhone
5](http://www.apple.com/iphone/), talking about everything from it’s
[geekbench score](http://browser.primatelabs.com/geekbench2/1030202) all
the way to [how tough it
is](http://appadvice.com/appnn/2012/09/the-iphone-5-is-one-pretty-tough-little-handset).
What I want to talk about is how it is to use.

I was not one of the first ones to get my iPhone, even though I ordered
it at 6AM on launch day, so when people started complaining about it
[being too
light](http://gizmodo.com/5945662/the-weirdest-thing-people-hate-about-the-iphone-5),
I got kind of worried. Now, if you haven’t held one before, you might
still be under that misconception. Truth is, at least for me, it’s not
too light at all. It’s almost perfect. It’s beautiful, sleek, and no, I
don’t think it’s going to [“fly outta my hand with the slightest
breeze.”](https://twitter.com/Rbeavs/statuses/249188103296778240)

Everyone has a different opinion on the screen size. Of course. People complain
that it’s too small/big/tall/short/wide/thin/curved/rectangular. When I
first switched, I didn’t really notice the difference in the screen size
that much, but when I was helping my father recently with his 3GS, the
screen felt tiny. I was surprised, it just felt so different. Another
thing you don’t really mind when all you have is an older phone is the
distance between the touchscreen and the display. When you use an iPhone
5 for a while and then switch back, even for a few minutes, it just
seems unsophisticated to touch on *top* of something you want to open,
not just *on* it.

Onto the verdict. Is it something you need? Well, to be really honest,
no one needs an iPhone. If you’re a fanboy (like me) it’s probably a
must buy. For the casual user, an iPhone 4 or 4S is all you need,
although I wouldn’t get a 3GS at this point, iOS 6 [runs a little
slow](http://arstechnica.com/apple/2012/09/tempting-fate-installing-ios-6-on-the-iphone-3gs/)
on it. If you’re thinking of upgrading to a smartphone, it really is a
personal decision, and really depends on what kind of deals you can find
on a 4 or 4S.
