---
layout: post
title: Tentr vs Bivy
date: 2013-01-16 14:40:27
---

[Tentr](http://tentrapp.com) and [Bivy](http://bivy.me) are the two iOS
[tent](http://tent.io) clients currently available. To get everyone up
to speed, here is a quick little summary of what the [Tent
Protocol](http://tent.io) is and [Why we need a new Social
Network](http://robs.im/posts/352-why-we-need-a-new-social-network).
With any free social network, you aren’t **using** the product, you
**are** the product. If that doesn’t make sense, read [Why we need a new
Social
Network](http://robs.im/posts/352-why-we-need-a-new-social-network).
Tent is a protocol for distributed, decentralized social networking. You
can [host your own server](http://tenti.co) or sign up for a free
account with [tent.is](http://tent.is) or any other provider you like.
Read more about Tent on [its website](http://tent.io). Now, onto the iOS
clients.

Both apps are 100% functional, the menus are easy to navigate and in
general they’re intuitive to use, however, [Tentr](http://tentrapp.com)
really shines in the Design and UI categories. When I Launch Tentr, it
goes right to my stream, and loads the 30 most recent posts (if there
are that many) and displays them right away. Then, if you want to read
more posts than that, just keep scrolling downwards and it will
automatically load more before you reach the bottom. It’s not a huge
deal but it makes a key difference in enjoyability. On the other hand,
when launching [Bivy](http://bivy.me), you go to a screen that shows you
all of your accounts (yes, it supports multiple accounts, Tentr doesn’t
yet) as well as a Tent.is site feed (another feature Tentr doesn’t
have). Tentr keeps it simple, beautiful, fast and extremely intuitive,
kind of like [Sparrow](http://www.sparrowmailapp.com). Using the same
metaphor, Bivy is similar to [Postbox](http://www.postbox-inc.com), it
works really well, it is jam packed with features and it does everything
you could need. The only minor annoyance that I’ve found in both apps is
the current lack of notifications for mentions, although
[Marco](marco.tent.is), the Tentr developer, promises that they’re
coming soon.

So Who Wins? Personally, I use and own both apps regularly. I use
[Tentr](http://tentrapp.com) more than I use [Bivy](http://bivy.me),
mainly because I’ve fallen in love with the friendly blue color scheme
and the amazing UI. (No, seriously, even if you don’t care about tent,
get this app, it’s that beautiful and awesome. Sometimes I just stare at
it.) I use Bivy to check the site feed as well as manage my multiple
accounts. If you’re just looking for one app, I’d choose
[Tentr](http://tentrapp.com) if you want something simple and sexy for
the basic tent functions and I’d choose [Bivy](http://bivy.me) if you
have multiple accounts and/or you’re in love with the site feed.